In this concept, we will learn about elementary data types.
As mostly all languages have,
Solidity has elementary data types and also complex data types.
In this concept, we will explore the elementary data types.
We will talk about int,
uint, bool, and address types.
For signed numbers, you will use the int type and for unsigned numbers,
you will use the uint type.
You can also specify the size of the integers in 8-bit increments.
For example, uint8 means eight bits or one byte,
which means it can hold a number between 0-255.
If it don't specify any size by default,
int means int256 and uint means uint256.
That means it can hold 256 bits,
which also means a 32-byte number.
Bool is another elementary data type and can hold true or false values.
Any logical operations like
the AND operation or the OR operation will all lead to a Boolean value.
The next elementary data type is address.
It represents an address of an externally owned count or even a contract account.
It is a 20-byte hex string.
It is a value type.
Address type also has methods that you can invoke.
Balance is one method.
So, you can get the balance of the account or the contract by saying address.balance.
Transfer is another method and so is send,
and these are used to send Ether to
another address from the current smart contracts address.
Now, what you see on the screen is an example of an address type.
The name of the variable here is owner.
In the second line, we have another variable called initial balance that is of type uint.
Then, inside the function set balance,
we are getting the balance of the owner by using
owner.balance and storing it in the variable initial balance.
Next, I want to explain you the initialization of these basic data types.
If you don't specify a value,
what Solidity does it initializes all uint and int types to zero,
and bool types to false,
which means int num will be initialized to zero, uint32,
another value will again be initialized to zero,
and bool value will be initialized to false,
and address type and all the address types are initialized to a zero address.
See if you look at the last line here, address of owner,
so if you ever wanted to check if this variable owner has been initialized or not,
we can just compare it to zero address.
Now, let's walk through some sample codes using data initialization.
Okay, so what you see on the screen is a very simple contract and
the name of this contract is BasicDataTypesContract,
and we are, of course,
going to go to the syntax and all that stuff more in detail.
But, if you start see our contract start to the line pragma,
and then we have contract,
and then we have the name of the contract.
Now, within the contract,
we are initializing a variable a,
of type uint8 and storing a value of 255 in it.
It's going to work fine just because in int type,
which means eight bits can store a value between 0-255,
so the compiler will not complain on this line.
In the next line, if you see we have an address variable.
The name is owner public.
That means anyone can view it, and it's called owner,
and the next line,
we have a bool type variable called flag.
Again, public and we're setting it to initially zero.
Then, we have a uint type variable,
called ownerInitialBalance and this is again non-initialized for now.
Like I mentioned, if it's not initialized,
it's going to initialize to zero.
That's what Solidity does.
Now, then we have a function here,
and the name of the function is test.
It is taking in one argument address type.
The name is address.
It is a public function.
We will look into funk functions and the syntax in our future concepts.
For just now, just go with the flow here.
Now, this function returns a uint type variable.
Now, inside the function, what we're doing,
we're actually taking the address that is being
passed as the argument and storing a DC owner,
and then what we're doing whatever the address is coming as the argument,
we're getting the balance of that address and storing it in
this variable that we had declared globally, non-initialized right here.
Now, this is something I just wanted to show you like we mentioned
that all Boolean values are initialized to false,
and also Boolean values,
you cannot just put like a one in here.
In many languages, you can just put a one and this will evaluate to true.
Solidity, in fact, expects an expression.
So, this is going to give an compiler errors.
If I delete this line here,
the compiler's going to complain because it's not expecting this.
So, just to show you that.
Now, this will work fine because you're after getting a Boolean value.
So, one greater than zero and, of course,
comes at the output is true which means now this code will be fine.
Then, again, in the function, now,
this is just a sample code,
is not doing anything here.
I just wanted to show you a couple of different features of how things work.
So, just to show you is this here,
and now what we're doing,
so again going back,
we had the address,
we store it in the owner,
and then we got the balance of and
store it at the owner initial balance and now we're returning that,
and this is the return type you want, okay?
So, if I, in fact, I can show to deploy.
We've looked at Java's Remix before.
So, let's go deploy this contract.
Once you deploy this contract,
you can click on this button right here.
Now, we've set the value of flag true,
it's going to output true.
Owner as of now is not set because if you see the owner is being set in this function.
So, as of now, we haven't clicked on the function test yet.
So, if I get the owner,
it's going to say zero.
Now, let's go call the function test.
What I'm going to do, I'm actually going to pick one of these values.
You can click on this button copies.
If you said "Copy to Clipboard",
it's going to copy this address, okay?
Now, I'm going to put in place this address right here,
and now I'm going to call the test function.
Now, when you call the text function,
you can click on this arrow right here and brings up this window,
and let's click on this last thing that we just had.
Now, let's call the function again and you will
see that the owner address has been changed to the one right here.
In fact, in the balance like you see this function is returning the balance,
so if I click on that and look on the output,
so this function is outputting the balance.
If you see this balance of this address,
the uint of the output right there,
the return value is this value 9999 which matches the balance.
Now, this is how you look at the balances of the contract addresses here,
so the balance of here matches.
This value right here in the way, of course,
this is an Ether and this is in way,
so it's giving you that value right here.
So, it matches.
So, again, just a simple way,
it's a very we're going to definitely get into more complex contracts soon,
but this is a very simple one just to show you how things work in Solidity.
So, we have some basic data types here,
uint type, you have an address type, we have a bool type,
and then I wanted to show you how you cannot
compare or evaluate something that's not an expression,
has to be an expression,
and you can also run contracts and functions and deploy contracts to this function.